# Major 10.0 Migration guide
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please make sure to first follow the ["Upgrade new version guide"](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/release/main/docs/core/UPGRADE_NEW_VERSION.md) before going through these steps.


## Personalization
Starting from version 10 of @o3r, the types of the components types must be set with the ```@O3rComponent``` decorator instead of the following
previously deprecated interfaces that have been fully removed.
* ``Blocks``
* ``Page``
* ``ExposedComponent``

The ``@InputMerge`` decorator -- only used in the context of localization -- has also been removed.

These changes have already been automated in the v9 ng updates.

## utils.Date
* ``dateInstance`` has been removed as it was only returning the instance of the object
* ``getUtilsDate`` used to create a ``utils.Date`` instance from a ``utils.DateTime`` instance has been removed.<br>
Please use instead:
```typescript
const myUtilsDateTimeInstance = new utils.DateTime();
const myDate = new utils.Date(myUtilsDateTimeInstance)
```

## Element fixtures
The signature of ``throwOnUndefined`` has been updated and now returns a Promise.

## End of @ama-sdk/generator-sdk
The ``@ama-sdk/generator-sdk``, based on yeoman and the Swagger CodeGen, is deprecated since Otter v8. It is now
completely gone and replaced by ``@ama-sdk/schematics`` running with Angular schematics and the OpenApiTools generator.

If you have not yet done so, the migration to ``@ama-sdk/schematics`` is automated since v9:

```shell
# In an angular context
ng add @ama-sdk/schematics

# yarn usage
yarn add -D @angular-devkit/schematics-cli @ama-sdk/schematics
yarn schematics @ama-sdk/schematics:ng-add

# npm usage
npm install --save-dev @ama-sdk/schematics @angular-devkit/schematics-cli
npx -p @angular-devkit/schematics-cli schematics @ama-sdk/schematics:ng-add
```

## Rules engine split
The previous ``RulesEngineModule`` from ``@o3r/rules-engine`` has been split into a runner (``RulesEngineRunnerModule``
available in ``@o3r/rules-engine``) and dedicated modules to handle the actions triggered by the engine:
* ``AssetRulesEngineActionModule`` available in ``@o3r/dynamic-content``
* ``ConfigurationRulesEngineActionModule`` available in ``@o3r/configuration``
* ``LocalizationRulesEngineActionModule`` available in ``@o3r/localization``
* ``PlaceholderRulesEngineActionModule`` available in ``@o3r/component``

This change allows a better tuning of the stores and packages loaded with your application. This means that from version
10 onwards, actions need to be explicitly registered in your application. 
You will find more information on the integration of the new rules engine on the [dedicated documentation](../docs/rules-engine/how-to-use/integration.md).
