# Major 11.0 Migration guide

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please make sure to first follow the ["Upgrade new version guide"](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/blob/main/docs/core/UPGRADE_NEW_VERSION.md) before going through these steps.

## @ama-sdk/core

- `prepareOptions` method has been removed from `ApiClient`. `getRequestOptions` should be used instead.
- To support `JSON` specification format and to remove the reference to the outdated `Swagger` format name, the file containing the current specification used to generate the SDK will be stored in a file `open-api.yaml` or `open-api.json` instead of `swagger-api.yaml`.
- To avoid interface name conflicts in case of an API with multiple tags (See issue [#855](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/issues/855)), the API parameter object interface named with the pattern `<api-function-name>RequestData` will now be named with the pattern `<api-function-name><api-name>RequestData`.
  - The same renaming is applied to `enum` types in request parameters. It changes from `<api-function-name><parameter-name>Enum` to `<api-name><api-function-name><parameter-name>Enum`.

## @o3r/schematics

- `NodePackageNgAddTask` has been removed. `setupDependencies` should be used instead

- The [`stringifyDate` CLI option](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ama-sdk/schematics#dates) is now enabled by default. If 
you want to use the `Date` format, you will need to set it to `false` via the command line:

```shell
# with yarn package manager
yarn run schematics @ama-sdk/schematics:typescript-core --global-property stringifyDate=false
# with npm package manager
npm exec schematics @ama-sdk/schematics:typescript-core -- --global-property stringifyDate=false
```

or by disabling it for your generator in your `openapitools.json` file:
```json5
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator-cli/master/apps/generator-cli/src/config.schema.json",
  "generator-cli": {
    "version": "7.4.0", // Version of the Codegen downloaded by the cli - updated via the 
    "storageDir": ".openapi-generator",
    "generators": {
      "my-generator": {
        "generatorName": "typescriptFetch",
        "output": ".",
        "inputSpec": "spec-path.(yaml|json)",
        "globalProperty": {
          "stringifyDate": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- Prior to version 11, the default types for date and date-time objects were respectively `utils.Date` and `utils.DateTime`.
Those two types take the date from the API response and remove their timezone to consider the date as if it were in the 
timezone of the user's machine (on a computer on UTC, the 01/01/2000 12:00 in UTC+3 would become 01/01/2000 12:00 UTC+0).
If a date had to be expressed in its original timezone, the date specification required an extra `x-date-timezone` vendor.
As of version 11, the default behavior is now to keep the timezone of the API response for date-time objects. They
would be revived as `Date` or kept as `string` depending on the value of the `stringifyDate` option.
The removal the timezone is now an 'opt-in' mechanism triggered by the `x-local-timezone` vendor.

> [!NOTE]
> This change only impacts `date-time` format. `Date` format will still be revived as `utils.Date` objects as the timezone 
> should always be ignored for date object (since there is no concept of time).

> [!NOTE]
> You can revert to the previous behavior thanks to the global property `useLegacyDateExtension`
